---
title: "Machine Learning for EMI Shielding Design"
collection: talks
type: "Project Leader"
permalink: /talks/2020-09-01-talk-2
venue: "University of Pittsburgh/MDS-Rely center"
date: 2020-09-01
location: "Pittsburgh, PA"
---
Electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding is a critical process designed to minimize the coupling of electronic devices to extraneous radiation, which can disrupt their operation. With the advancement of technology and the proliferation of electronic devices in our daily lives, the need for effective EMI shielding has never been more pronounced. This necessity extends beyond the protection of device functionality; it is also paramount for safeguarding human health from the potential hazards posed by exposure to electromagnetic waves. As regulations evolve and new laws are introduced to address these concerns, the demand for innovative EMI shielding solutions continues to grow.

Traditional methods of EMI shielding, such as the use of Faraday cages or metal sheets, while effective, present significant limitations when applied to modern technologies. These conventional solutions, characterized by their thickness, weight, and rigidity, are incompatible with the burgeoning fields of flexible optoelectronics and e-textiles. The inherent inflexibility of metal sheets and Faraday cages, coupled with their production through cost-intensive subtractive manufacturing techniques like die-cutting, extrusion, or molding, underscores the pressing need for a paradigm shift in EMI shielding fabrication.

Moreover, the security aspect of EMI shielding cannot be overlooked. As electronic systems become increasingly integral to both civilian and defense applications, the ability to protect sensitive information and ensure resilience against electromagnetic pulse (EMP) weapons or attacks is of paramount importance. Such threats, capable of incapacitating electronic systems, highlight the strategic significance of EMI shielding in national security and defense strategies.

Addressing these challenges necessitates the development of EMI shields that can be seamlessly integrated onto soft and stretchable substrates, as well as 3D objects with arbitrary shapes and surface textures. The goal is to achieve high-performance EMI shielding that does not compromise on mechanical robustness, thereby enabling the protection of a wider range of devices and applications.

This project aims to explore and develop advanced materials and fabrication techniques that transcend the limitations of traditional EMI shielding solutions. By leveraging cutting-edge technologies and innovative approaches, we aspire to create EMI shielding solutions that are not only effective and versatile but also conducive to the needs of flexible electronics, e-textiles, and beyond.

[MDS-Rely coverage](https://mds-rely.org/july-featured-project-machine-learning-to-design-and-create-emi-shielding/)
