---
title: "LayerLumos - Open Source Package for Optical Stack Layer Simulation"
collection: talks
type: "Initiator"
permalink: /talks/2024-03-01-talk-3
venue: "Github"
date: 2014-03-01
location: "Pittsburgh, PA"
---

LayerLumos is an open-source software designed for scientists, engineers, and researchers in optics and photonics. It provides a powerful yet intuitive interface for calculating the reflection and transmission (RT) of light through multi-layer optical structures. By inputting the refractive index, thickness of each layer, and the frequency vector, users can analyze how light interacts with layered materials, including the option to adjust for incidence angles.

Our mission is to offer a lightweight, flexible, and fast alternative to commercial software, enabling users to perform complex optical simulations with ease. LayerLumos is built with performance and usability in mind, facilitating the exploration of optical phenomena in research and development settings.

## Features

- **Lightweight and Efficient**: Optimized for performance, LayerLumos ensures rapid calculations without the overhead of large-scale commercial software.
- **Flexibility**: Accommodates a wide range of materials and structures by allowing users to specify complex refractive indices, layer thicknesses, and frequency vectors.
- **Angle of Incidence Support**: Expands simulation capabilities to include angled light incidence, providing more detailed analysis for advanced optical designs.
- **Open Source and Community-Driven**: Encourages contributions and feedback from the community, ensuring continuous improvement and innovation.
- **Comprehensive Material Database**: Includes a growing database of materials with their optical properties, streamlining the simulation setup process.

[LayerLumos](https://github.com/Mil152/LayerLumos)
